Broken Story
By Bradley Parkinson, who you will hate by the time you’re done reading.

Chapter 1: Armath the Hunter
I don’t know why I was chosen. I was happy, once, a long time ago, and there are a thousand people out there who would gladly have taken this role instead of me. I am Armath, “the hunter”, or so they call me, because I track down and slay anything that harms the innocents of this world.
And that’s why I’m here, to fight the Undead Hordes that plague this world, along with any other monsters, no matter what form they take. As I look around, I see no travelers, no animals, not a sign a life for miles. There’s a reason this is called “the Deadlands”. Skeletal, petrified corpses of once mighty trees surround me, and in the distance, on all sides, ruins of the once-mighty kingdom of Cidacka can be seen. But that kingdom was only the first of the many victims to the Undead Hordes; a massive force of undead which are the greatest threat to all living things in the entire world. They butcher people with no hesitation, including my own village, even though I know the Writer was the true engineer behind that attack. So, first I’ll kill all of the undead, and then I’ll use the strength that gives me to kill the Writer. He took my life from me, so it’s only fitting that I’ll take his life from him.
I sensed the undead drawing near, as their unmistakable stench was like a beacon, drawing me toward them.  They prey on innocents, which makes them evil, but I prey on them, so what does that make me? Good? Probably not.
I readied my blades, and dashed forward toward the crowd of abominations. At my left was a sword that was forged by the renowned merchant Pecunia of Redevar, then enchanted by myself, which blazed with a magical blue fire when the wielder so wished it. And in my right hand, was one I recovered from a Wraith; undead abominations which let out a horrible, unmistakable shrieking sound, have strange powers, and can even kill heroes chosen by the Writer. This blade could fire a storm of metal shards, and was immune to corrosion. The acid spitting beast which it belonged to licked up and down the blade, letting its corrosive spit and blood make this weapon even more deadly. Both blades were sharp enough to slice a horse in half.
I came down from on top of a ridge, bloodlust roaring in my heart. Despite their attire showing them to be the corpses of soldiers, they were entirely unprepared. I ripped thought their formation at breakneck speed, slicing, dicing, and gouging as I went through. I took care to remove their heads and send them into a frenzy against their former allies. Each one I killed only made me stronger. Once I was on the other side of their formation, I noticed I had been stabbed many times by these monsters, even through my chainmail. But again, the pain held some solace, and this too, only made me stronger.
While they were distracted with finishing their crazed comrades, I summoned up my mana to unleash a blast of fire from my left sword. Fire is my personal favorite way of destroying these beasts, as it ensures they’ll never come back. A swirling gout of flame engulfed the entire group, consuming them and reducing them to ashes with bits of scorched armor in between.
Armath checked his wounds. The power he’d gained from killing trolls had already made them mostly healed, and there was no point in stopping. Time to find more monsters to kill. This had had been going on for about a month, but for him, it had barely begun.
Then, a surging gust of wind blew out of nowhere, almost knocking Armath off his feet. Almost. Armath searched for the source of this unnatural wind, and through the howling gale, hearing the bone chilling shriek of a wraith. No, wait, several wraiths, all at once. The sounds of their voices together were like an unholy choir. Armath braced himself, as he had killed four wraiths before, and knew they were no joke. Their powers were strong, but his was stronger; from each being he killed, he gained their abilities. This applied for all things; trolls recover quickly from wounds, and Armath gained a stronger version of that healing factor for each troll he killed. All creatures added to his abilities, and it had made Armath a one-man army. Still, no two wraiths had the same power, so he was always stuck with a multitude of powers weaker than the original, unless he had killed droves of the creature which originally possessed.
The gales grew stronger, and soon, their source landed 50 meters ahead of him, bearing countless wraiths, all shrieking with their soulless voices. The creator of these gusts appeared to be a dragon- no, something far larger than a dragon- with a humongous wingspan and a massive, craning neck that moved eerily independent of the body to observe its prey. Yet even when it did not flap its wings, it still generated a massive windstorm. Obviously, this must be some kind of creature Armath had never killed before. Its head would be a fine trophy, if he could carry it back. And the ability to control wind- even to a fraction of this cutting gale that enveloped him- would be a key power in battles to come.
Armath dug his swords into the ground, using this extra leverage to fight the winds and get closer to his target. It went to bite him, and he released his swords from the ground, allowing himself to fly back, and unleashed a hail of metal on his foe as he did so. It would appear even this wind couldn’t completely stop the shards, and they struck the beast, square in the head with a direct hit! It did not seem to care. The winds died down, and the wraiths began to leap off of its back and charge Armath. Now, they will see what he gained from killing a dragon.
Armath grabbed a massive gulp of air, and used the power of dragons to turn it into incendiary fuel which he launched at the wind monster. If he could take it out of the fight, this would be much easier.
Suddenly, one wraith, which looked like a demonic scarecrow with a straw hat and tattered red vest, lashed out a limb which extended and struck Armath like a brick wall. Armath was knocked clean off of his feet, and the monster came around for a second strike, this time a powerhouse overhand lash. But even brute beasts and wandering birds don’t fall for the same tricks twice, and Armath left the tendril’s path, and put his sword the way instead, slicing the monster’s hand clean off. This must have scared the others, because they stopped charging and backed off. Who knew they could feel fear? It was a delicious thought for Armath.
When suddenly, the most peculiar thing appeared: a regular looking man, on the back of the wind beast. That was the last thing I would have expected. I found myself somewhat less bewildered when he started flying down to the ground, as it suggested he was unnatural in some way, even if powerful magic users often do that. Could this be a legendary Revenant? I never thought they existed. They were said to be a type of undead, who, despite being wholly unnatural like the rest of their kind, show no signs of physical deterioration. Only a few, mentally unstable veterans who’d returned from these lands had ever claimed to see them. Even necromancers turn undead due to their craft and become liches. What makes these things so special?
It spoke, shocking me even more, “You are an idiot. You see undead and you go charging in, no regard to your personal safety. And you’ve been a bigger pain than most heroes, I’ll give you that.”
It could speak, yet it was mocking me? I- no, no- Armath the Hunter took a bold step forward and said, “For the crime of killing my friends, family, and wife, I will ensure all of you undead suffer and die! You may look like a man, but I know you are a horrible monster underneath, who took everything I love from me!”
Armath charged forward, rage burning in his heart, fueling his fiery passion onwards.
With a snap of his fingers, the Revenant shot several huge shards of stone into his opponent, knocking him to the ground and halting his valiant charge. “You know nothing of love.”, the monster spoke, and walked over to his fallen foe. “I can’t believe it was that easy, yet one of the three of us still had the face you ourselves.” He drew a blade that glistened unnaturally, like the eyes of a monster staring at its prey. “Goodbye, stupid hero. Tell the Writer to send someone a little more challenging next time.”
Armath was made resilient to injury by all of the undead he had killed, and sent a surge of anger throughout his body, just trying to get up. He managed to stand and faced his foe, ready to fight again. “Don’t count me as dead just yet, you zombie son of a bitch.”
“Okay, now that’s just rude, comparing me to the shambling hordes of rigor mortis afflicted pawns that stumble onto battlefields. Here, how about you just cool off?” The revenant thought it was clever with that pun, and unleashed a massive blast of cold that none of Armath’s powers could hope to stand against.
I felt the life drain from my body, as the world grew darker. Amy, my love, I will finally see you again. I’m so sorry I kept you waiting for nothing.

Chapter 2: A New Hero
Well, shit. Oh, hey, what’s up? I’m The Writer. Yes, as in the god Armath was bitching about. Speaking of which, that death seeker Armath just got himself killed, in case you were wondering. Dumbass. To be fair, I thought that by having him be driven by the death of everyone he loved would make him want to be a hero MORE. Then he starts blaming me, saying how much I took away from him! What the hell? Anyway, he’s not the first hero, nor the last, so let me just find a new guy to replace him. I bet you’re new to this world. Probably don’t know what’s going on, do you? Okay, let’s get a hero who’s just like you; totally clueless. That way, you can learn with him. Pretty sweet idea, right? No need to praise me, I know what I’m doing. I am a god, after all.
Far away from the events of the last chapter lied the Wathahek mountain range, where spires of stone stretched to the sky. Few come here, and those who do are usually hunting for the dangerous creatures that live here, such as snow trolls and storm dragons. However, deep within these treacherous mountains lies a peaceful valley, blooming with life, and within this valley, there lies a village, quaint and sparsely populated. This is the hamlet known as Orig.
A boy, no older than 16, sits outside the ruin of his burnt down home. The villagers have gathered around, asking what happened. He tells them all the same thing; that a strange voice appeared to him in a dream, and said he had the gift of emotion based powers. When he awoke, he wandered through the dark of his house, stubbed his toe on a table, and got angry at it. Next thing he knew, the whole house was on fire.
Needless to say, nobody believed him.
But soon, there was a new stir in this remote mountain village: a visitor. He was an older fellow with salt and pepper hair, but he still appeared quite capable and accustomed to fighting.
 A rarity in this town, for sure. Few brave to roads in the Wathahek Mountains, fewer still seek out this quaint and, frankly, unimportant town.
It did not take long for this stranger to come to the smoking ruin of the boy’s house.
The stranger wore a strangely gilded iron chest piece over a layer of troll fur which extended down his arms. Down his back extended a cloak adorned with a symbol the boy had never seen before. He pulled up his horse-drawn carriage to the site of the house, leaned over the edge, and spoke to the boy. “So let me guess, you had a weird dream recently, didn’t you?”
The boy looked up, and responded, “Uh, well, yes. How did you know?”
“Congrats kid, you’re a hero now. I take it you got some cool powers, and proceeded to burn down your house with them. Smart one. Funny, the Writer must be running out of ideas if he gave you fire. I already got that one.”
The boy attempted to address all the information that was just thrown at him; “A hero? What do you mean by that? And also, this was an accident! Plus what was all that about you having fire powers? And who is the writer?”
The visitor gave him a deadpan look, and spoke, “Wow, you’re serious, aren’t you? Like, I knew this village was secluded, but come on! You at least have to have heard of heroes, or the Writer, or something, right? No?” He sighed, and thought to himself how unfortunate it was that one so clueless must carry such a large burden. “Alright, let me explain: A while back, a bunch of undead appeared. Like A LOT of undead. Most people refer to this specific group as “the undead horde”. So, the god of this world decided to reveal its existence and picked random people to ruin the lives of by giving them powers and calling them “heroes”. The writer made it a point to spur on heroes that don’t want to leave their old lives by destroying those lives they had built. I guess you’ve already learned that, haven’t you? I’m sorry about your family. If I had gotten here sooner, I could have saved them.” The stranger said those last words, looking shamefully at the ruins of the house.
The boy understood the situation a lot better now, but still felt confused by that last bit. “My family? Why are you sorry about them?”
“Well they died in the fire that took your house, right? Not to sound rude, but it seems that’s what’s happening here.”
The boy raised one eyebrow, then spoke. “Uh, no. They died... long ago. Why do you ask.”
“So what you’re saying here is you were an orphan when you were chosen as a hero and got the dream?”
“Yes, ever since I was twelve, I’ve had to learn to fend for myself and adapt to whatever changes.”
The stranger was visibly shocked. “Wow, that’s… actually pretty respectable. I take back my previous thoughts, you could very well be a great hero. In fact, many heroes come from humble circumstances.” The stranger hopped off of the cart, which shifted greatly under his weight, and landed with a hard thud, his feet sounding like two anvils being dropped to the ground. “Tell me, who are you? I want to know more about our great hero.” he said, whilst giving a half-sincere smirk.
“Evan, of the village Orig. I do a lot of everything, but I can’t say I really have one permanent job. I do a lot of different things around the village, but I’m not really an expert at anything.”
“A jack of all trades? Hmm, I guess that means you could be taught a new profession. You’ll have to learn quickly, though.”
Evan replied, with little hesitation, “Sure, I can do that! But who are you?”
The stranger thought to himself how remote this village must be, if they had never heard of him. Or maybe the just didn’t recognize him, despite his cloak. “Ser Ernand, originally of the kingdom Lusitania. Some people call me the Flame Knight, but I typically don’t use my flames unless there is good cause to.”
“Why not?”
Ser Ernand closed his eyes and took a long, deep sigh. “I get this question a lot, and I have another question as my only answer. Would you use a power you only gained from the death of someone you cared about? Especially if that person was another hero, and a far greater one than yourself? I’m just a replacement. We’re all just replacements. When one hero dies, retires, or otherwise stops being useful in fighting undead, the Writer just replaces us. Now, if you’re quite finished rubbing salt in my wounds, would you like to get going?”
“Sure, I can do that!” Evan chimed. “Just one question; where are we going?”
“We’re going to Redevar, a city of steel and ships. They’re very rigid in their moral codes, but are really good people at heart. Although, if you have any criminal history, I’d recommend keeping that to yourself. I’ll be leaving at that point, after we meet up with another group. An elite group of monster hunters from the Order of Illios. Before you ask, that’s an organization founded by the first hero, Illios, to fight against the Undead Hordes. These hunters will take you to the headquarters of the Order of Ilios, to be trained and prepared for being a hero. Before we go, you should say goodbye to anyone you’re close to here.”
“I don’t really have anyone I’m close to here. Honestly, the truth is that not having any parents or other living relatives to speak of makes you a bit of an outcast here. So I’m ready to leave as soon as you are.”

Chapter 3: Last Rest
Hey, back again. That “Ser Ernand” guy you just met may just seem like an old geezer, but trust me; he’s the coolest hero out there. Like, don’t even bother trying to find someone else to be your favorite character. You just met the best one. Even if he’s a little BITCH and won’t fight undead for me. Anyway, I digress; I didn’t introduce myself properly last time.
 I’m the writer, god of this world, and the only thing keeping it from being boring. You’re welcome. Anytime I speak, you’ll see this italicized text. Don’t worry, only you and I can read it, meaning I can say things you should know, but the likes of Evan and Ser Ernand shouldn’t know… Like that I’m betting Evan will die in like 2 chapters. It’ll be hilarious.

Quickly, two heroes departed, down the road and up the mountains.
“We’re heading to an inn known as Last Rest. It’s the deepest trace of civilization in these mountains, and it will allow us to get onto Lightning Pass, the straightest route through the mountains.”
Evan looked behind him, and caught one last glimpse of his still smoldering home before it slipped from his sight forever. He then asked “Why is it called Lightning Pass?”
“I’ve heard a few stories behind the name, but I’m not sure which I true. Some say it’s because the pass follows the side of multiple mountains, and is thusly crooked like a lightning bolt, others argue it’s because of the storm dragons that frequently attack travelers on the pass. Those are dragons that spew lightning as opposed to fire. Others say it’s simply because you get a lot of thunderstorms on the pass, but that would hold true for snowstorms in the winter. So honestly, I don’t know which is true. Maybe it’s all of them.”
They were deep into the mountains by this point, surrounded on all sides by tall trees and taller mountains. The tall pines closed in like a ravine on both sides, with only the road they were on giving a brief bit of breathing room. Just then, a roar came from the forest, followed by a series of loud bangs. Evan knew those noises, having grown up in the mountains.
“Troll! Quick, use your flames, they hate fire!” shouted Evan.
“Oh, so you do know something, just about trolls? No worries, I can kill this thing without using a single spark.” Ser Ernand reached into the back of the cart and pulled out a massive sword, no less than six feet long. It was wrapped in a brown sheath of odd looking leather, which came off to reveal a dark gray blade, unlike any metal Evan had ever seen. “This blade is exactly 2 meters long, and made of solid wolfram. That’s the strongest metal on earth, but it’s almost as heavy as lead. Not an issue for me, though.
He hopped from the cart, and the shift in weight almost caused Evan to fall off. Ser Ernand held the massive blade in one hand and marched confidently toward the source of the roar. A massive troll, over 20 feet tall burst forth from behind the trees, obviously driven to a rage by hunger and bloodlust.
This is not a fair fight.
Ser Ernand lifted his sword and chucked it at the troll, cracking the ground beneath his feet as he did so. It impaled the troll through the chest, sending it flying backwards and pinning it to a tree, dangling above the ground. The massive creature, which had to have weighed as much as a ship, now dangled lifelessly from a mighty pine tree, which was split in half by the impact of the sword.
“H-h-how did you do that? What the actual fuck? That’s not even remotely humanly possible! Trolls literally weigh tons!” Shouted Evan in utter bewilderment and disbelief. “I am believing absolutely none of this bullshit!”
Watch your fucking language, Evan.
“Eh? Oh, I get it, you’ve never heard of XP, have you?”
“What on this unholy earth is XP? Is that some kind of power from the Writer that gives you super strength?”
“No- well, maybe. Sort of. That’s… a really loaded way of asking that question. Okay, let me just explain this; if you kill something, anything, from a tiny rabbit to a massive dragon, you will get XP. Obviously, not the same amount though. So for example, that troll I just turned into a tree ornament gained me 3000 XP. Speaking of which, I need to go get my sword.” Ser Ernand began walking nonchalantly toward the dead troll. He called back, “As you get more XP, you can enchant things to have special properties. Swords that shoot fire, armor that makes force fields, crystals that teleport you, that kind of thing. In fact, you can even enchant yourself. I did it to reach the maximum level of strength that’s possible. Or at least, the maximum that’s practical.” He arrived at the tree, looked up, and noticed that the sword was a good 20 feet above him. “Watch this. It’s what happens when I punch things.”
Unsurprisingly, he punched the tree, on the side opposite of where the sword went in. Surprisingly, though, his hand sheered straight through, splintering the wood, and splitting the tree the whole thing from top to bottom. By sticking his other hand in and ripping the two halves of the tree apart, he caused the impaled troll- along with the oversized sword pinning it in place- to fall to the ground with a hard thud. He then grabbed the hilt of the sword and brutally wrenched it from the torso of the massive beast.
He began walking back to the cart, and casually held the gigantic blade in one hand while pulling out a cloth to clean the blood off of it.
“You see Evan, I’ve dumped a lot of XP into two areas; strength and resilience. I can overpower almost any foe at close range, and the ability to turn boulders into deadly projectiles makes me dangerous at long range as well. Not to mention, almost any kinds of attacks just kind of bounce off of me. The only downside is that extensive levelling into this particular branch of XP powers can make you heavy, but that’s far offset by the strength you gain, so it won’t slow me down.”
“Why are you telling me all this?” Evan asked.
“Because I want you to know that if you go rogue, and start using your powers as a hero to start hurting others that aren’t so fortunate, I can and will kill you. And if you start trying to fight dirty, then I’m not afraid to stoop to your level, and use my flames. I’ve done it before, and I can do it again.” Ser Ernand jumped onto the cart, causing it to rock once more, only Evan knew why it shook so greatly now. He felt very nervous, sitting next to someone who could snap him like a twig, and just threatened to do so.
“Anyway, we need to get going. As much as troll fur is worth, time is more valuable at the moment.” Ser Ernand pointed up toward the sky, and said, “At this time of year, we have an eclipse at about an hour past noon every day. That time will get later as the year goes on. Midday just past us, and I’d rather not be wandering around in the dark.”
Yes, eclipses are a daily occurrence for these people, the time of day for which corresponds a little bit with the seasons. They don’t appreciate how cool it is, though, and most hang out inside while waiting for the sun to come back.
After riding for about half an hour longer, they arrived at a clearing with an old, but welcoming building with a sign which read “Last Rest”. The sound of bees and distant birds could heard all around, and there was a faint murmur of voices from inside the building, interrupted periodically by bursts of laughter.
The cart rolled to a stop in front of the inn, and Ser Ernand gave Evan the chance to get off first.
Because Ser Ernand is super honorable like that. Trust me, like all of the other heroes are lame compared to him. Maybe if I could make like 50 exact copies of him, I could fix this damn undead problem. Hmmm…
Evan jumped off the cart. Ser Ernand was quick to follow. 
Okay, yeah, but how would I do that without it seeming like some totally contrived bullshit? Consistency is key…
The pair walked into Last Rest together. The aroma of candles swept over them as they opened the door, and the bartender had a sparkle in his eyes as he looked at who had come in.
“Ser Ernand! The Flame Knight himself has come to visit! And who is this at his side? A new squire?”
People from around the bar began looking over, and whispering amongst themselves.
Ser Ernand took a deep sigh, then replied, “No, this is Evan… our new hero.”
The barkeep’s expression “New hero? Wait, does that mean… Armath…”
“He went into the Deadlands a few months ago, and hasn’t been seen or heard from in months. I think we all know what that means.”
The barkeep fell back into a chair, and began sobbing into his hands. “I knew him. He was one of us, even until the very end. Always willing to look after the poor… the downtrodden.” He sniffed, interrupting his sobs, then continued, “He was more than a hero… He was a friend. A friend to anyone in need, whom mercenaries and soldiers would pass over without thinking of helping. I thought for sure, that of all the heroes I’ve ever seen, this would be the one to knock out the undead for good. I can’t believe… that I believed.”
Ser Ernand crouched down and put his hand on the man’s shoulder, saying, “Armath was a man who was beyond the point of finding peace. He was a good man, who died fighting for what he believed in. But we both know that the kind of world he sought to create would have no place for the man who created it. But how many of those bastards do you think he brought down with him?”
The barkeep regained some composure, and looked Ser Ernand in the eyes, saying, “So you’re saying this is what he would have wanted?”
“To go all-out, killing as many undead as he can, clearing a path for someone who can not only bring them down, but build a better world after they’re all gone? Yes, my friend, this is exactly what he would have wanted.”

Chapter 4: The Power of Sorrow
Even though he obviously had to lie to make it happen, Ser Ernand has kept respect of the patrons of the bar. They sat down to have a drink, a conversation, and to make Evan just a little less clueless.
“And so, my boy, if you want speed and accuracy over power and range, go with a bow. If you want power and range over accuracy and speed, go with a gun, like this here flintlock.”
I fucking hate anyone who uses guns. The only reason I haven’t erased that man from existence is because 
 If you want a balance of two, I’d recommend a crossbow.” one of the patrons spoke, obviously taking advantage of the rare opportunity to teach a hero who is quite likely to become famous one day.
At this point, Evan felt comfortable enough to ask something that had been on his mind the whole time, “So… Who exactly was Armath the Hunter? I get he was a great hero, but I don’t actually know much about him.”
Mentioning Armath to a bunch of poor people is like pouring sugar on an anthill.
“Armath had the capability to absorb the powers of things he killed. The more he killed, the more his powers grew. All heroes have powers, but his were a sight to behold.” One of the patrons, with a long, bushy beard spoke fondly, “I saw him slay a monster once. A basilisk, had to have been at least 13 meters long! He breathed dragonfire on it, then leaped up, and split it head to tail!”
Evan was confused, “Meters, you said, what are those?”
Ser Ernand butted in, “I take it your village used the old measurement system, with feet? A lot of backwoods places do.”
“Yes, we do.” Evan replied, simply.
“One meter is like 3 feet. Not exactly, but close enough for measuring big snakes. You should probably ditch that old system of measurement you used, measuring things is almost as important as reading.”
Evan looked down, unsure of himself, then spoke, “I can’t read, either.”
Ser Ernand looked intensely at the boy, unable to believe what he was hearing.
If you look closely, kids, you can see he just died a little more inside.
“So let me get this straight”, he said, “You can’t read, you can’t write, you can’t measure, you have no home, no family, no friends, and no money. Do you even have any experience in combat?”
Evan looked down, his heart filling with sorrow, “No, but…”
“But nothing. I swear, every time the Writer picks a new hero, they’re less qualified than the last. What the hell was he thinking, picking someone like you?”
The room went cold, as if someone had opened all of the windows and doors during a howling blizzard. Frost began to coat the tables and chairs, and even the beer being drunk by the fellow tavern patrons began to ice over. The other patrons bolted to their feet in surprise, and some found that their chairs were firmly frozen to floor.
Evan rose to his feet, and shouted at Ser Ernand, “I’m sorry, I’m doing my best! But first that weird dream, then my house burns down, and then you throw some gigantic sword at a troll! I just- I just don’t understand!”
Ser Ernand rolled up his sleeve and raised his arm upwards. Suddenly, it ignited in a deep blue flame, which emanated a soft warm glow which combatted the bitter cold produced by Evan. He replied to Evan’s outburst, “I know, and I’m not criticizing you for that. In fact, you’re hardly unique. The real person to blame here is the Writer, who keeps making underqualified people into heroes, when there are a multitude of highly trained, disciplined warriors at the ready to become heroes at any time. The writer is horribly irresponsible when choosing heroes, and it leads countless innocent people to their deaths.”
Take that back, you little shit. Also, I think you’re shortselling Evan a bit here, dude. Time will tell.
Evan calmed down, and the frost which had now encased every inanimate object in the room quickly thawed from the heat of the Flame Knight’s power. Evan looked up, and spoke, “Was all of that ice… caused by me? I’m sorry. But it’s all gone now, Ser Ernand, you can turn off your flames.”
“What, they are off, aren’t they?” It seemed, in using his power, he had accidentally ignited the troll fur on his own armor. “Cagué! The troll fur on this armor cost me a fortune!”
“Not like you can’t just buy another…” the patron with the scruffy beard murmured to himself.
It wasn’t long after that the afternoon eclipse ended, and the pair set off. Before he left, Ser Ernand thanked the owners of Last Rest for their graciousness, payed them, and let them know there was a dead troll down the road that would be worth a lot of money, if one were to skin it.

Chapter 5: Honor, Duty, and Justice

Gradually, the thick pines of the Wathahek Mountains were replaced by lowland forests, and eventually into the plains of a valley, with people busily tending to fields, orchards, and farms on all sides. 
Looking back, Evan could see the snow-capped mountains and forests he just arrived from. He wondered where his old home was, and just how far away from it he was.
“This, my friend, is the nation of Redevar. We heroes may pass between nations freely, as those within those nations typically have more reasons to want us there than otherwise. Plus, impeding heroes may harm relations with the three most powerful forces in this world; the heroes themselves, the Writer, and the Order of Illios, an organization that works on behalf of heroes.”
“You had mentioned them earlier, who exactly is the Order of Illios?” Evan asked, curiously.
Sir Ernand took a deep breath, as though bracing himself, then responded, “Remember how earlier, I mentioned a large group of undead? Well, when they first appeared, about 1000 years ago, a hero rose to oppose them. His name was Illios, the Sun Knight. Wielding the power to create beams of light powerful enough to burn his foes to ash, and riding a rare, legendary sun dragon, he did battle with the undead on numerous occasions. He founded the Order of Illios first as a means of rescuing the people still trapped in lands taken by the Undead Hordes, and later as a means of fighting undead themselves so that those refugees may one day return to their homes. He was, and is, the ideal of what a hero should be. The Order of Illios seeks to continue that dream, to train new heroes to fulfill the dream all heroes share.”
“The dream all heroes share? What’s that?”
“All true heroes, from all times, fight for one reason; to create a world that doesn’t need them anymore. A world where all of the evil has faced justice and been eliminated. A world that many would say cannot exist. It’s a sad, twisted paradox that we heroes fight, bleed, and die in a desperate struggle for our own obsolescence.”
Sir Ernand turned his head away from Evan in a failed attempt to conceal the fact that he began crying.
“Sorry”, he said, “That’s just something Illios used to say all the time. I guess, when I heard him say that, I agreed, and took it as one of my own beliefs.”
